
## Prerequisites

* Install Apache Solr `http://lucene.apache.org/solr/downloads.html`
* create new core with name content `bin/solr create -c product`
* have a basic knowledge about Apache Solr 

## Problem
* How to add the following (qf, bq, mm) parameters to the Solr query generated by Spring Data Solr, OR 
* How to use standard query parser and dismax parameters in the same query that  generated by Spring Data Solr, OR
* How to use edismax parameters to the Solr query generated by Spring Data Solr
* so let's take a very brief about `standard query parser`, `dismax query parser ` and finally `edismax query parser `

## Standard Query Parser
the standard query parser can be tricky:
* Conditional Searches: AND, OR, NOT
* Wildcard Searches: *
* Fuzzy searches: ~
* Search Term inclusion/Exclusion: +/-

## Dismax Query parser
Dismax is a subset of `standard query parser` and its purpose is to process queries the simplest way possible and less error messages for the user to deal with.
It can still perform `phrase searches`, `Search Term inclusion/Exclusion: +/-`, `q`, `qf` and `bq`, Don't worry we will dissucess them in edismax section

## eDismax Query Parser

The eDisMax(Extended DisMax) query parser is an improved version of the `the-dismax-query-parser`
It supports both `dismax` and `standard query parser's` syntax and gives better control over the field that can be queried, So edismax:

* supports the-standard-query-parser syntax such as (non-exhaustive list):07h
** boolean operators such as AND (+, &&), OR (||), NOT (-).
** optionally treats lowercase "and" and "or" as "AND" and "OR" in Lucene syntax mode
** optionally allows embedded queries using other query parsers or functions
* includes improved smart partial escaping in the case of syntax errors; fielded queries, +/-, and phrase queries are still supported in this mode.
* improves proximity boosting by using word shingles; you do not need the query to match all words in the document before proximity boosting is applied.
* includes advanced stopword handling: stopwords are not required in the mandatory part of the query but are still used in the proximity boosting part. If a query consists of all stopwords, such as "to be or not to be", then all words are required.
* includes improved boost function: in Extended DisMax, the `boost` function is a multiplier <<the-dismax-query-parser.adoc#bq-bf-shortcomings,rather than an addend>>, improving your boost results; the additive boost functions of DisMax (`bf` and `bq`) are also supported.
* supports pure negative nested queries: queries such as `+foo (-foo)` will match all documents.
* lets you specify which fields the end user is allowed to query, and to disallow direct fielded searches.

#### The commonly used query parameters are:

In addition to all the the-dismax-query-parser, Extended DisMax includes these query parameters:

* `q` (query): Defines the raw input strings for the query.
* `q.alt` (alternative query) :defines a query that will be excuted when `q` is blank or absent.
* `qf` (Query Fields) : specifies the fields in the index on which to perform the query. If absent, defaults to df.
* `bq` (Boost Query) : specifies a factor by which a term or phrase should be “boosted” in importance when
considering a match.
* `mm` (Minimum should match): in any query we have  three types of clauses: (Mandatory(+), Prohibited(-), and Optional)
By default, all words or phrases specified in the q parameter are treated as "optional" clauses unless they are preceded by a "+" or a "-",
so the `mm` works only on optional terms, let's have examples to understand: 
* if mm=3    then it must match at least 3 optional terms 
* if mm=-3   then it must match at least (total-2) optional terms
* if mm=90%  then it must match at least 90% of optional terms
* if mm=-10% then it must Ignore at Most 10% of optional terms, or it should gave same result like (mm=90%)
* If q.op is effectively AND’ed, then mm=100%; if q.op is OR’ed, then mm=1. 
So it should set a default value for the 'mm' parameter in solrconfig.xml file.

* `boost`: Boost Query: specifies a factor by which a term or phrase should be "boosted" in importance when considering a match.
